I drive to midtown NYC pretty much every day and initially it was amazing but now, it’s the same as it was pre congestion pricing. Traffic is horrible until about 8pm. My parking garage guys have said business is actually up.
As much as I believe in congestion pricing, I want to see percentages. I was told early on, never trust anyone who says ‘trust me’
No actual figures probably means the percentages are so low they’re embarrassing to publish.  

“Traffic is down a whopping .02%, while subway ridership has sharply increased by .01%”.  (Source: the people pocketing the money from the program). 
Kinda weird that they used this vague information instead of quantifying it but congestion pricing is goated
Data is provided by the MTA using guess work. Read the article it clearly states “MTA estimates” on most the bullet points. There is no data provided for people to comb thru.
Congestion pricing is working well. No amount of downvotes from right wing trolls will change that
The sad part is most of the money will be wasted
Of course it's working...no wonder why Trump wants to shut it down!
I had to drive to court at 60 Centre Street last week and it took me 50 minutes from White Plains. And I found free, street parking at 11 am a block from the court house without having to pay for one of those hourly garages!
Everything about congestion pricing is working. It’s the best new policy of the 21st century.
Just another in a long line of taxes against the middle class
Convinced me not to go to Manhattan anymore
Where is the data??
Unfortunately this issue has been politicized.  People who support Trump are unwilling to see the benefits while those who oppose him are unwilling to acknowledge its downsides.  NYT falls under the umbrella of the latter. The decrease in commuters hurts business  that rely on foot traffic. Business that rely on deliveries are getting slammed. Most of all contractors that bid on work to keep the city maintained and build new infrastructure are bidding WAY WAY higher on all manhattan work.  As of right now there are NO exemptions for city contractors and those costs will get passed along to the tax payers.  Material deliveries like concrete charge surcharges, companies are tacking on 15% minimum when bidding any work in manhattan. Think road repair, utility work, sidewalks, tree pruning, HVAC services, water main repair, tree planting, pavement marking, window cleaning, etc etc 

They need to allow for some exemptions.  For instance there are no concrete or asphalt plants downtown, so any job that requires a big pour of several loads of concrete a day is going to get absolutely demolished in surcharges
Working for who?
Correlation does not equal causation

CP was initiated at the same time there was a huge increase in immigration enforcement. A lot of illegal immigrants stayed off the road for fear of deportation. 

Now please do something about all the school workers driving home, zonked out on gummies, driving 50 MPH in the left lane.
My own experience is driving into the city a couple of times a month to get downtown. I used to plan an hour for this, but sometimes that wasn't enough. Since congestion pricing, I plan an hour and it takes me 45 minutes. A couple of times even less. And I've found that the added toll charge makes taking MetroNorth almost as cost efficient (despite it still being way too expensive), so I've reacclimated myself to getting to the train platform on time (I'm within close walking distance, to be honest), so overall, I think congestion pricing is working from my personal perspective, at least.
Time to raise the toll and expand the zone
I work in analytics and data science. I read the source of information. These numbers are most likely not indicative of the truth. There are some data points that are promising however, these wreak of cherry picked stats:

Many metrics use a benchmark of ‘from this month last year’ which is essentially one data point and a very poor benchmark at that. I would’ve most likely have used traffic benchmarks between 2016-19 (earliest consistent period prior to Covid). 

I also see many statements of ‘based on predictions of X’s best guess’ which is a huge red flag. That indicates that these are based on models and not observations, as someone developing models, they are often manipulated into what the executives want it to see. 

Further we have data from the direct beneficiary of this program being successful (both the MTA and DOT). This further ties in with my statement just above. 

I want this program to succeed and for me to be proven wrong, but based on the data publicly available I can’t trust the early results. Even if these results are accurate, if I were working this analysis I would not want to release this study publicly yet due to a high likelihood that it could be the result of a temporary behavioral response to the new pricing, which will return to normal figures over a longer period. I base that prediction on the number of drivers entering the congestion zone steadily month over month as the data shows. I know this issue is politicized, I don’t really care about that but I do care about math. We need a lot more data for the math to check out.
Emptier wallets for the not-wealthy…up and up
I’m trying to understand how bailing out an agency as money wasting and foolish as the mta is a good thing? Especially by taxing the drivers.
Yeah it’s not. I can tell this chart is bullshit because transit ridership is the same. Stop simping for more taxes, they ain’t gonna help you.
This proves one thing: A lot of people that didn’t absolutely have to drive into “the zone” were doing it just because they could. Now that it costs money they aren’t clogging up the roads. Especially Fridays.
Glad to see they included impact on local businesses.
That sounds very biased.
Yeah that’s all the benefits, nobody was really arguing those. I think it’s the cost to the drivers that are argued
Dirty riff-raff service workers: Down  
Subway crowding: Up
The subways to work now as a non driver, take me about 50 to 75% longer, and are more uncomfortably packed.
personally, it’s improved my commute
Source: trust me bro
My own experience, traffic is really bad in the zone but at least it only costs me $9 to sit in it.
i dont understand how anyone can oppose this
Those of if us who drive know this is absolute nonsense
I don’t think much has changed now.  I head down there atleast 2 times a week and I am always stuck in traffic on non peek times at that
It’s not working I was stuck last Friday going from Chelsea piers to 42 st took me 1 hour
Honestly at least the commute to NJ is cheaper .. still sucks tho
I drive into the city for work on Mondays (I work nights, 7 pm to 7:30 a.m.) and the traffic was very quiet when congestion pricing started, but the last few weeks there was traffic at the midtown tunnel. The cars are coming back! 

Also I drove uptown about 2 months ago and I realized it’s not that traffic is down. It’s just shifted uptown. 
Can't argue with data like that
Drove into the city the other day hoping I wouldn’t be sharing the road with all the less fortunate but congestion pricing hasn’t done anything for the traffic as far as I can tell.
We've been screwed when renting a car....we have our own ez pass but the readers go by plate.  We can't  load the rental plate bc it's already on the car rental acct.  So the rental co gets charged full price then we get charged full price plus fees!
If the purpose is to lower these stats, the city is better served simply stating that if you dont live on the island of manhattan, you cannot have a vehicle there.  Further more, vastly eliminating the illegal operation of bikes / e-bikes will make the city much much safer.  But we all know thats not what this program is about - this is about money and taking money from those who drive/ride in cars and giving it to those who do not drive/ride in cars
Left out increases in payouts to MTA board members.  Up up up. 

NYC Representatives on the MTA board still NONE NONE NONE.
Show specific numbers or else I'm going to assume the difference is only a trivial amount like "0.01%". After all, we already had significant tolls on the bridge and tunnels before (crossing the tunnel from New Jersey costs like $30) so is yet another toll really going to matter?
Is there actual data or is this just one persons observation
Yay let’s pay more taxes, we won!
TAX ME MORE HOCHUL, TAX ME MORE BUCKY THE BEAVER!
Yes! Paying an additional toll in a vehicle that you’ve paid taxes on (while also annually renewing your registration on a depreciating asset). Driving that vehicle on roads that you pay taxes for to be paved and well-kept (even tho we all know that’s a joke) in a state that taxes 40% of your paycheck 😍😍
I’m stunned that traffic noise complaints are even a thing!
Duh. If Trump says it's bad, it's going to be good for a lot of people.
Any word on the businesses and how they are doing?
Every time I’ve gone into the zone my trip has been faster. Finding parking isn’t much different but I mostly see cabs driving around me now
Hochel bribes on election years
Fortunately I rarely have to drive into the city but I find this data at odds with what I hear on the traffic news every morning. It seems like traffic is still a thing with 30-45 delays still.
For who?   This is the land of make believe.  Nothing got better with congestion pricing!!
congestion pricing is goated nobody can tell me otherwise
It didn't mention city (or state, I don't know who) also received $158M in revenue that can help with infrastructure  projects. 

  
I guess it's deliberately left out because it'll get people thinking - where did those money come from, oh my pocket lol
Charging drivers to subsidize the mismanaged MTA: Still wrong
No wonder the Trump Administration wanted to kill it.
Can we do it in Westchester next?  Ahhhh....
I'm in favor of congestion pricing and I'm a NYT subscriber, so put my criticism in context. 


That table is absolute shit. Either you have the data, so report the numbers ... or you don't.


If you don't have the numbers, you know nothing and you should shut up.
I wish they would have reached out to contractors hired out by DOT, DDC, Parks dept, etc they are bidding higher on jobs because of this. To bring a fleet in and out of downtown is insanely expensive and there are no exemptions. That cost gets passed on to the tax payers. We are talking 100s of millions of dollars. Cost of maintenance goes up, cost of repairs goes up, cost of building goes up.
I love it! Drive into city once a week - I pay the toll and have a much faster, safer drive
Mods: This is for wEsTcHesTer NOT tHe CiTy!!!!
No surprises here. But I don't like the way it's presented at all. 'Up, up, up' reads like patronizing your audience. It annoyed me, at least.  
  
I appreciate the links to the data in the replies here.
Don't bring that congestion toll to the Willis Ave bridge.
Sincerely a westchester commuter who travels there for work.
Still not worth it
Imagine being convinced that not wanting the government to steal from you is "right wing"

Thats some successful brainwashing there
Remove the speed cameras and traffic will go even faster. That’s the goal right? I do my part.
New York is robbing its citizens! Congestion pricing is a scam that the governor put in to earn funds to defend that beast James
BS. My commute take 2-3 hours every day to get home to NJ from Queens. Same as it was before.
BS. Who came up with this nonsense?
Easier to jaywalk!!
People who are happy to pay more money in the city always baffles me
OP just posts a picture of words like “faster” - are there any actual stats or evidence here?
Vague results, I’d prefer percentages
Its a tax because the mta is beyond corrupt and people r ok with it because the subways are going to be beyond repair very soon.  These r the same people that get excited about a tax refund.
Any facts to go with that?
WITH THE LATEST: U.S. wholesale prices fell by 0.5% in April, marking the biggest drop in five years, despite DJT's sweeping tariffs on imports.
Looks like the comments are showing its not actually working. What now OP? How you gonna justify your TDS now
We just parroting shit now
Those are useless metrics that only show the benefits without the costs. If we simply blockaded every street and banned cars entirely, that would also reduce cars on the street to zero; but that doesn't mean it would be a good idea. 

  The whole point of congestion pricing is well-off Manhattan people can afford to pay the tolls so they think it's great their commute is faster since they don't have to share the roads with poor people anymore, so they get only benefits. But there is a cost to the people who can no longer afford to drive.
Oh you forgot to mention subway violence is up too now that there is a larger pool of victims!
I don’t know what city your referring too but NYC it just cannot be. The numbers we see in the city are way off yours.
What a scientific and specific piece of information. "School bus delays: fewer" Wow!
There are less cars on the road because of this absurd tax. why wouldn't this all happen?  I feel like some people think these stats are a "gotcha".  What else would happen?

  
Its a tax on the working people...the teachers, law enforcement, construction workers, "ditch diggers" of NYC.  I love when they interview some well off 32 year old of the upper east side that probably doesn't even pay for their own apartment.  Yes, they love that there's less cars..............breaking news! more at 10pm! 

Love how you make it a left or right thing.  Broken brain.  I'm team reasonable.
Its all a money grab and it’s fucked up. Mta goes over budget every year and service never gets better.
It’s the salaries and benefits to the top executives.
If you drive into the city and pay the toll, that’s revenue the city wasn’t getting last year. If you stop driving and take the trains and buses that more revenue then last year.
They win no matter what. Poor leadership from the government all around
“There is no war in ba sing sei”
Tax me harder daddy
Same I drive to Manhattan daily down to Brooklyn bridge area. Traffic was lighter for a few weeks but now people seem to have just decided to pay and it’s back to how it was.
100% same observation.  Up until maybe mid April.  Now the traffic is the same pre-congestion pricing.
Same here…it was good for 2-3 weeks and then back to normal and in some cases traffic got worse. We are spoilt, this not gonna work in New York 😆
It’s worse uptown, where the traffic has shifted. 
I haven't seen any change other that Monday and Friday along the fdr. Same build ups and same delays. 

Train station is empty those days as well.
Is it the same for everyone, that Google Maps is really weird about planning routes if you select "avoid tolls"? In other areas it seems to do a good job of parsing whether a toll is necessary even with that setting on.

I use the setting because I want to avoid other tolls on the way in, but it always seems to generate these weird detours that wrap all the way around manhattan and make me second guess if there actually are entry points where you don't pay the toll.
I think traffic is down on weekends
No way.  Absurd to say traffic has returned.
“how has transit ridership increased?” “TO THE MOON BABY UP UP UP”
I agree. I'm in favor of it, but give us actual numbers.
It’s more digestible for people. If they have a before and after statistic for any category, I don’t think moves the needle for people. Quick way for people to consume information they ultimately care about.
I know for a fact that the MTA has people counting commuters. Also probably has alot of data on ticket sales.
Comments like this make me wonder if people actually understand what’s going on.

The purpose of “congestion pricing” isn’t to reduce traffic in Manhattan, it’s to raise revenue so the MTA can bond out financing for the massive capital improvements the system needs.

The MTA spends money like drunken sailors, and what New Yorkers get in return is laughable. The real measure of this program won’t be traffic relief. It will be whether the MTA can competently spend the revenue to fund and execute its capital plan over the next decade.

Given their track record, that seems unlikely. And with a multi-year outcome lag, it’ll be a while before we know if they can deliver.
Yes it has. Best policy they’ve done in ages. I’m surprised how successful it’s been so quickly
Yes, It is doing a great job keeping poor people out of Manhattan.
[deleted]
most is an improvement, we should all say thank you at this point, because its a joke.
They could honestly just put the money in a gigantic hole in the ground and burn it, the main effect is that it makes everyone's life better in the city.
That’s just government
Yes, it is great!!!! I am glad that poor people are no longer coming to Manhattan. If $9 is enough to keep you from driving to Manhattan, then you are too poor to deserve to be in Manhattan.
take the train
OP only shared a screenshot. The data sources are all cited in the full article on the New York Times website.

https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2025/05/11/upshot/congestion-pricing.html?smid=nytcore-ios-share&referringSource=articleShare
Sir, this is Reddit.
Feel free to "do your own research":

https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2025/05/11/upshot/congestion-pricing.html?smid=nytcore-android-share
Trust me bro.
Wait, so contractors pay $x more in taxes, so they tack that cost onto their contracts.  

This means the city pays $x more, but the city also receives $x more in taxes.  

Isn’t everyone in exactly the same spot?
Visitors to the zone UP
Centrism, for when you want to seem smarter than everyone else without saying a goddamned thing.
> The decrease in commuters hurts business that rely on foot traffic.

Visits to the zone are up 1.9%. MTA usage (not including Staten Island Railway) is up 10%; PATH is up 6%. And moving people to mass transit *increases* foot traffic. Visitors in cars are, by definition, not pedestrians.
I see the advantages. but its a...."well duh"....Of course there are less cars/traffic/accidents because you're charging people to drive in an area.  I don't see the "own" here.   We can open up a can of worms that "xyz fees/pricing" can apply to.  

  
Theres alot of working class people that commute into the city.  It's not just investment bankers.   Trump truly broke brains around here.  Who cares what he thinks or doesn't think or want to do.  Call balls and strikes.
Why? Can’t they just barge it across from the ready mix plants in Brooklyn and Staten Island? Newtown Creek is studded with them, and all of them have barge access.
There was not just a single source of information. 

Including multiple government agency sources.
Yeah it is. I can tell yo uare full of shit because transit ridership is actually[ above pre-pandemic levels](https://www.amny.com/news/congestion-pricing-mta-data-traffic-subway-ridership-04132025/). Stop simping for oil companies and billionaires. they ain't gonna help you.
Wow so happy for the rich fucks who live there the poor tax is working on the peasants.  Outside of Reddit, no one middle class or below is for this nonsense.
“Critics have argued that the toll would scare off tourists and hurt local businesses. So far, there’s not much evidence of that, even as some businesses report signs that declining international tourism and tariffs are starting to pinch.

Visits to business districts, 2024-25
In zone
Rest of NYC
+1.9%
+0.4%
January through March of each year. Source: NYCEDC analysis of data from Placer.ai
In March, just over 50 million people visited business districts inside the congestion zone, or 3.2 percent more than in the same period last year, according to the New York City Economic Development Corporation (its estimate tries to exclude people who work or live in the area).

And according to the Times Square Alliance, the number of pedestrian visitors to Times Square through April 22 this year was almost identical — about 21.5 million people — to the number in the same period last year.”

Restaurant visits UP
Broadway tickets, same as last year.
it agrees with what I've observed in Manhattan. Congestion pricing has erased a lot of traffic and the streets feel a lot calmer and safer to cross
The truth has a known liberal bias.
You mean the public data?
Go into manhattan and see. My trips to work have had more people on the Metro North but less cars in midtown. It’s pretty cool.
if only there was some other way to get into NYC
I drive. 

It’s not.
I breezed in and out just yesterday.
And that never happened before?

On the whole it is working. 

That doesn’t imply there will never be traffic.
DOT, MTA, Google Maps data. You’re looking at one screenshot that summarizes a much larger article in the NYT. 

“ The reporters sought information from everyone they could think of, including the M.T.A., the Fire Department, restaurant-booking platforms, researchers and one yellow school bus company.”
It's from the NYT. Data from the MTA, NYPD, FDNY, DOT. 

https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2025/05/11/upshot/congestion-pricing.html?smid=nytcore-android-share
Like the insane tariffs?
You could try not driving in
I much prefer a congestion toll compared to the alternative they were discussing (higher payroll taxes to fund subway repairs) which would not have had the side benefit of faster traffic
You mean like the Trump tariffs?

Those kinds of taxes?
Do you know how much it costs to accommodate a car in new york city?
Don’t forget, the MTA also taxes your income for living in Westchester regardless of if you even go into the city.
How do you mean? Like ... People complaining about traffic honking outside their window? If so, I get the impression you've never lived next to the Holland Tunnel.
all my construction vendors have tried to issue additional cost of $800 per month, which is bs. This cost will be baked into their general conditions moving forward.
"Otherwise" - bridgenine

Also it doesn't work around 53rd street, and their is a secret path through the west side where you can enter with no camera trail and leave! 
Also you can just do to the trash route and have a paper plate or plate cover. 

They really didnt think this through at all.
You really think people paying the toll don’t know where the money came from?
Every organization over 50k people is mismanaged. Every single critique of every government agency could also be leveled at my publicly traded employer.
No, it’s not? The MTA is an enormous part of what allows the NYC economic engine to function, without which Westchester, NJ, Connecticut, LI would be deserted.
Use the subscription to read the article then
Oh no! Developers that are already building things that no normal people can afford will make those things more expensive? Whatever will we do?
It will eventually be in all 5 boroughs save yourself sone time money and aggravation and leave nyc
take the train
Not understanding that taxes are necessary in a society that shares responsibility for services is right wing. 

Opposing anything that’s a common good. Is right wing.
Read the NY Time article.
So that you could say you don’t believe them.
Address your letters to The NY Times. 

Meanwhile, it’s amusing that whenever the prevailing consensus leans progressive in Reddit the right wingers dismiss it as “that’s just Reddit”

And yet now you want to use consensus in a thread as some sort of proof
Subway crime has been upticking since 2014. 

 But I’m sure that’s ‘because of congestion pricing’ reaching back through time travel.
you mean the people who take the train?
Fewer.
It’s up but nowhere near levels it was before. Especially Fridays. Seems that was the day people would love to go cruising or something.
Looking outside my office window right now, and can confirm this. When it first launched, the streets were clear! Now it is exactly the same.
I mean, if traffic remains the same, then that boost the coffers of public transit, which will make THAT better (but we will probably all be dead before many of the improvements come -- see also: water tunnel number 3).
In the rest of the NYT article this is from, they do—these are just the headlines
This is accurate. Without MTA overhaul and smarter regulation, this is just a wealth transfer program to construction companies who win MTA contracts.
No actually it's about rich white people living in midtown wanting less cars and poor people in their millionaire neighborhood
Reminds me of when Bloomie banned smoking in bars & the push back was that it’d slow the bar / nightlife
business , instead everyone, even smokers were so happy about it & was a true improvement
most people take mass transit. And driving was already crazy expensive. No one believes your concern trolling about poor people.
Oh yeah totally (what are you talking about?)
By better, you mean there are less poor people. I agree.
Or take the train like the rest of us. Frankly, the change I want to see is for the city to implement a policy in which every household in the city can apply for one parking pass valid only in their borough. Everyone else who parks on the street has to pay for street parking. This is valuable city space being given up for free.
The train? Who wants to ride in those crime ridden disasters. Maybe fiction the train’s before doing this
Thank you!
Yes the contractor pays more and the city pays more but the amount of work getting done remains the same.  So tax payers are in turn paying more money for the same amount of work.
That should be the case. There may be cases where contractors didn't factor in the cost, but the program was announced far in advance, so they should have had a chance to price that in.
Estimate. And wow they interviewed a whole 4 businesses to see if they thought it was a positive for business. FOUR. It’s almost as if there’s no real data
Visitors who park their cars turn into pedestrians, but I concede to your main point.
Calling balls & strikes here is easy, it's a fact that the average driver into the congestion pricing zone is wealthier than someone who commutes in via mass transit. This is an extremely old argument at this point, that I'd think a balls & strikes caller would look into before posting.
It’s not practical at all.  Would probably end up being more expensive than just paying the congestion toll
I know... Was there something you wanted to add to that?
Do you take the train at least 3x. Week? Doubt it. You dont need charts to see that levels are very clearly not prepandemic. I still see empty seats. 

Also opposing yet another $9 tax to drive into the city is simping for billionaires? You think they care about $9 (or $16 which it will eventually be)? Extremely dumb take
A poor person doesn't DRIVE into Manhattan. What are you smoking?
how is this a poor tax? Look who is complaining.
I work with hotels, they are not doing great right now.
What data? It just says “fewer”, “faster”, etc. That’s not data.
My 2 hour ea way 30 mil commute begs to differ
Glad that worked out for you, I went to a doctors appointment thinking the traffic would be minimal and boy was I wrong.   The one thing I can say is that finding parking has gotten easier for me.
It was only working the first month (January), born & raised in the city I drive daily it’s a SCAM
Oh well ok then. I just hope people are prepared for the money to not go where it’s supposed to and it will line the MTA managements wallets. Look out for them getting big raises in the near future
Don’t live there, but stayed with my aunt on many vacations over about 50 years, so I’ve heard the noise. But people who live in Manhattan know about traffic noise and that it never ceases, so I’m surprised any of them takes the time to complain to an official source which keeps stats. Complain in general or neighbors/friends,  sure. But who would take the time to complain to the city? How could anyone imagine that such a complaint might help the noise situation?
sooooo break the law?
The difference being the consumer has the option not to use their dollars at your publicly traded employer’s company.
I work there and it’s 100% mismanaged and the money will not go where they say it will
The MTA is important, I didn’t say it wasn’t.  That doesn’t change the facts it burns money for a terrible user experience.  Nor does it change the fact they are extracting even more money from those who may not even use it.  They need to fire the current management and subject the MTA to a full audit before allocating any more funding.
I did. And the table remains shit.
Companies  that build and maintain your roads and sidewalks with taxpayer money.  Companies that prune and plant trees.  Make bike paths, repair and paint bridges etc etc.
I wish I could but the money is in Manhattan for me. At least I don't live in nyc anymore.
Weird how things seemed to function fine without taxes for so many years then
It's bad everywhere on Friday evenings.
Oh gotcha, any chance you know a non-paywall link?
Just one example, the MTA is adding two above-ground head houses, each with an ADA elevator and staircase, at the 36th Street Station in Sunset Park near Industry City. The projected cost? A modest $100+ million, with a target completion date of 2027. 

Sure, inflation is real and ADA access is essential, but god damn. This price tag for two elevators and staircases should make folks question how the local city and state governments spend the money we pay in taxes and whether the MTA knows how to manage capital projects.
No, that’s a benefit perceived by some and certainly by some of the group you mentioned. But let’s be clear, the actual purpose of this toll is to fund the MTA’s capital plan.

Now, I’m not denying that there are upper-class, mostly white, Manhattan yuppies who cheer this on without understanding the real impact. That’s a thing. But at the end of the day, the MTA has been legally forced, through consent decrees with the federal government, to spend billions on ADA compliance after being sued by disability advocates for years of noncompliance.

On top of that, they’ve deferred basic maintenance and modernization for decades due to chronic mismanagement overseen by idiot politicians. So now they need a bailout. 

And this is in every way quite literally a massive bail out of the MTA, city, and state government. 

So when leftist clowns mock working-class people who drive into the city, I get why that pisses you off. It’s elitist. It’s obnoxious. 

But make no mistake, this isn’t about traffic or the environment or any other quality of life issue BS. 

This was forced onto the city as a cash grab to try to hide decades of dysfunction at the MTA and avoid the actual conversations about goverment waste and mismanagement that should be happening.
I thought the same thing!
I remember that. I used to work as a waiter back then. It was an immediate improvement
Some of the poorest neighborhoods in NYC have some of the highest rates of car ownership. The main reason is that these places are transit deserts, which is why they are less desirable by people with more means.
how are there fewer poor people? Most people take the train specifically because cars can be prohibitively expensive.
I used to only drive in on Sunday evening for dinner, and there is always a ton of parking and no traffic on Sundays. Sundays are great because most of the restaurants are not busy. Now I go elsewhere.
"Ewww I don't wanna ride with the poors and *those* people"

Suck it up. Public transit is fine.
4 days a week. And, yes, it is far more crowded now. But also, what I or any one person may or may not see at my specific time isn't really a great measuring stick. After all, anecdotes are not data.

  
And it could $1 and they would complain. Rich people get rich by taking from society, not by contributing to  it.
How is traffic down then lmao
that's not congestion pricing. if you're staying in a hotel in downtown Manhattan, you ain't driving to the outer boroughs.
Sorry I thought OP linked it: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2025/05/11/upshot/congestion-pricing.html
That’s because it’s just a screenshot. The data sources are cited in the full article on the New York Times website.
Its about congestion, which means more transactions overall in the NYC economy. 

If you think this is some kind of huge money making operation, you're operating on a different level.
On a personal level, 311 app made this really easy to do. There are also traffic noise sensors and fines for honking. They track it.
Is your employment supposed to be the proof of their mismanagement?
Cuomo stole so much money from the MTA, IDK how you claim it's their fault. Andy Byford was in charge and was run out of his job cause of Cuomo. Albany has been the problem for a long long time.
It’s wildly subsidized for our benefit. It is much, much cheaper than they could be or would be in other cities. 

Metro north at least is also a fantastic user experience and you should be grateful for it.
Companies working with the city and state agencies are exempt.  Try again.
And there’s a daily cap. It’s a one and done toll for 24 hrs, no matter how many times you enter and leave the zone
Same here still in nys unfortunately
Enlighten us… when exactly did NYC have no taxes?

But I’m glad you think NY “functions just fine”. 

When there were no taxes it was the era of robber barons. 

And yes, only right wing cultists call taxes “the government stealing from you”.
I didn't say it was great.  It's better than it was.  Better.  And who cares about night?  I'm talking rush hour and workday.
It does not appear to be paywalled, but you still need to sign in:

https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2025/05/11/upshot/congestion-pricing.html
My understanding was it's also the associated maintenance costs with the project? I could be wrong though. It's wild it'll cost as much as a building but with a budget like that hopefully it won't end up like so many of the derelict infra projects they've done.
Thanks for pointing everything out!!  It's absolutely a cash grab and there will not be any real improvements.
You know this stuff is available to look up, right? Turns out [income and poverty levels are slightly negatively correlated to car ownership.](https://wellango.github.io/posts/2021/06/who-owns-cars-in-nyc/#:~:text=From%20the%20above%20map%2C%20it,the%20city%20or%20their%20borough.)

In fact, car owners tend to have significantly higher income in pretty much all neighborhoods. Granted, that is a "chicken or the egg" type question.
The transit deserts of the city are not usually inhabited by the wealthy or even middle class. They are inhabited by people that have few other options. These neighborhoods have some of the highest car ownership rates in the city.
Suck it up? People literally get put on fire in the train. Public transit is absolutely awful. It's okay not to want to be in fear of being burnt alive.
Per the photo, it’s measuring peak, so it is trying to measure at one specific time. Also for your article it measures one week where it is equal to pre pandemic, on the ground it’s 100% not even close to the true story. 

Trust me, the rich dont care about this. Unless you count middle class as rich. It’s $9 direct tax on the lower/middle class. And its likely to increase to an unreasonable $16 eventually. People in queens aren’t driving to manhattan enough to make a tangible impact. Uber and other  companies who you may be referring to as ‘the billionaires’ already got their carve out and exemptions.

As a family of 4 it would cost me estimated $100+ round via public transit if I took the day off to go to the natural history museum, I’ll still drive but just another slap on the face and ding on my wallet. Unfortunate that Trump had to say anything because it resulted in people reflexively defending this bullshit toll when previously there was firm disapproval of it.
People that didn't \*have to\* drive in stopped driving in. Doesn't make them "poor".  Just loved taking the car instead of public transportation.
Here's one example: Broadway shows.  Lots of people were driving in from the suburbs to literally then pay for parking to catch a show.  A show they paid hundreds for.  Now a lot of those people are still going to shows but they are taking the trains in.  I know a few personally that are doing this.  Because yeah they realized that between the parking and the toll it was a better cheaper idea.  

These aren't poor people.  In fact in a few years with a few raises I bet they will start driving in again unless the toll goes up with the cost of living.  But for now there are less of them doing that.
Super reasonable response and thank you
When my craft went up to contract negotiations, they wouldn’t give us a raise when congestion pricing was on hold because they said they didn’t have money if congestion pricing didn’t go through. The MTA is notoriously horrible with money, it won’t be spent the way MTA says it will.
Interesting, thanks!
Yes because obviously I know more than the regular person. Also look up MTA and it won’t be hard to find articles of them mismanaging shit
The MTA budget is almost $20Bn, of which $9.6Bn comes from taxes or state subsidies.  There is not a shortage of funding.  

The cost per ride is higher than most other US transit systems and international cities.  Tokyo has a transit budget of $16Bn USD and accommodates 3.7 billion more rides annually.
“Wildly subsidized” is an accurate statement.

Metro North is more expensive for similar distances than other US cities like Boston, Chicago, and Philadelphia.  It is more expensive than Tokyo and Toronto, and only comparable to London On Peak (London cheaper off peak).

The user experience for Metro North is generally fine, the subway is a very different story.  Metro North gets about 8% of the total MTA budget, so the congestion pricing theft is not really going to further Metro North.
Nope this is false

Private contractors working on behalf of the city typically operate privately owned vehicles, which do not fall under the any of the exemptions. Unless a contractor’s vehicle is publicly owned and meets the specific criteria set by the MTA, it would be subject to congestion pricing tolls when entering the Congestion Relief Zone. As of this time no private contractor has been granted an exemption for non city owned vehicles.
Let’s say you are a contractor doing road construction for the city and are getting 10 loads of concrete plus 10 loads of asphalt delivered a day.  Plus you have your own fleet of ~20 vehicles coming in every day because there is nowhere to rent a yard or store equipment downtown.  That’s 840  bucks a day and expected to increase.  Let’s say you have a 1 year contract, that’s an extra 200k in expenses a year.  Contractors are going to have to bid jobs like this higher and that cost will be directly passed on to the tax payer
NYC had no taxes for over a hundred years. How did it succeed?

Might want to read this.

https://thelibertarianrepublic.com/but-muh-roads-how-a-governmentless-society-could-still-have-an-infrastructure-system/
Just took these two photos right now

https://ibb.co/zHfr958L
https://ibb.co/dwRmYbp6
I’m not sure. I looked at the budget for that station because I used live very close to that station and was trying to gain insight into the scope of the work they were planning. 

At one point they were considering adding an entire second mezzanine between 34th and 35th street on 4th Ave. I don’t know why but they abandoned that in favor of two head houses and direct access to the platforms.

Every time I went into that station, nearly daily, I’d see people evading the fare. 

The whole situation in the city would be laughable if it wasn’t so pathetic 😂😐
Is Lower Manhattan among them? No? OK, then. 

Robert Moses designed our high way system specifically to allow affluent white people to live on areas with mo public transit. The areas with little or no service are like that because the people on those areas want it. Or at least though they did at some point.

The definition of a "transit desert" in NYC seems to be more than 0.25 miles from a train station. I walk that to get my bus in the morning. It's silly. Should there be more coverage and better service? Yes. But that is not an issue with congestion pricing. Which also makes allowances for low income commuters.
Good thing no one burns to death driving
Your example is so dumb lol.  You’re saying the people who are affected by this are driving in and burning 20 dollars worth of gas, 15 dollars worth of tolls, to a 200+ dollar broadway show and pay 40 dollars for parking, and you think the tax of 9 dollars is where they draw the line.  Hilarious.  I’ve had enough of you go away.
swing and a miss
You have any source for that comparison? Not that it changes my point. 

“Congestion pricing theft” lol. The evil crime of “tolls”.
You are mistaken. But carry on.
Libertarian. Synonym for juvenile fantasyland.
Did anyone say anything about there being NO traffic? WTF?
Aren’t the highways technically “outside the zone?” The only thing the OP says about that is “not worse,” which is by no means the same as “better.”
I admire your level of competence of the train system. Wow!
You don't live in a transit desert
I was ignoring you lame attempt at an insult
I asked Grok to summarize Metro North fares vs similar distances in other cities - feel free to fact check it.  It referenced 25 different sources for information, most of which were official sites.  It gave detailed breakdowns which were fairly interesting, if you care.

 As someone who has to pay a toll to drive into any part of Manhattan, I have no problem with tolls.  When I cross a bridge, I pay them.  No problem.  Hey, the roads suck too, but at least the money goes to maintenance of the system I use.  I don’t want the bridges to collapse.  

Theft is robbing someone driving to pay for a transit system they aren’t using IN ADDITION to paying for the one they are using.
I’m dealing with this first hand right now.  If you have more info i will gladly take it
Libertarians arent right wing. I thought you said right wingers.

If you think everyone but you is wrong hate to break it to you but...
Define transit desert
by responding to my very successful insult?
And yet you didn’t post the grok response, or your prompt? Or even tell me what you learned exactly?

We all pay taxes and fees that go towards public services that we may or may not use, whether those are trains, busses, roads, schools, or ambulances. 

You may not use the train, but it moves the people who make your economy run, and it keep them off the roads so you can actually move if you’re out there driving.
Libertarians are right wing by any reasonable definition. 
Just because they’re hands off on some of the social issues that modern day ‘conservatives’ love to obsess about doesn’t change that their general ideology is against government serving the public good. 

My most libertarian friend had his epiphany during the pandemic. When, as he says, he believed strongly that people would just do the right thing without government ‘coercion’ (as the libertarians love to frame it), and then he saw how people responded to the request to wear mask and saw that, no, you can’t count on people to do the right thing. Government sometimes needs to mandate the public good.
This makes me chuckle
By ignoring it and answering the question like an adult
No.

[https://philarchive.org/archive/JCLTPCv1/1000](https://philarchive.org/archive/JCLTPCv1/1000)
Let me know when you get to that
Reframing 

It’s still juvenile fantasy.
